testing component by component is exactly the right approach. Here's the step-by-step sequence:

Step 1 — Create and activate a virtual environment
In the VS Code terminal, navigate to your project folder and run:
bashcd seeing-the-symphony

python -m venv venv
Then activate it:
bash# Windows

    venv\Scripts\activate

# Mac/Linux
source venv/bin/activate
You should see (venv) appear at the start of your terminal prompt. This means you're in the isolated environment for this project.

Step 2 — Install dependencies

    bashpip install -r requirements.txt

Watch for any errors here. If a package fails to install, that's your first thing to fix before moving on.

Step 3 — Test the parser in isolation first
Before starting the server, verify the parser itself works on its own. In the VS Code terminal:

    bashpython -c "from backend.parser import ScoreData; print('Parser imported OK')"

The exact import path will depend on how Claude Code structured the folders — adjust accordingly. If it imports without errors, the parser module is healthy.

Step 4 — Run the FastAPI server
bashuvicorn backend.main:app --reload
Again the exact path depends on your folder structure — Claude Code may have named it differently. Look for a file called main.py in the backend folder. The --reload flag means the server restarts automatically when you save changes.
You should see something like:
INFO:     Uvicorn running on http://127.0.0.1:8000
INFO:     Application startup complete.

Step 5 — Open the FastAPI docs UI
Open your browser and go to:
http://localhost:8000/docs
You should see the interactive Swagger UI with your POST /parse endpoint listed. This confirms the server is running and the endpoint is registered.

Step 6 — Upload a test file via the docs UI

Click on POST /parse
Click Try it out
Click Choose File and select your Bach chorale MusicXML test fixture
Click Execute
Scroll down to see the response

If you get a JSON response with notes, instruments, and sections — Phase 1 is working.

Step 7 — Run the test script
bashpython test_parse.py
You should see something like:
Title: BWV 227 - Jesu meine Freude
Composer: J.S. Bach
Instruments: 4
Notes: 312
Sections: 3
Tempo events: 1
Duration: 87.4 seconds
All checks passed.
